 Others, however, live to feel the blood rushing through their bodies, the wind in their hair… It’s an addiction. I’m not yet sure where I fall on the spectrum but, alas, I found myself joining the troops early on a Saturday morning at the Middelburg Parkrun.
It was cold and misty, my hands turned blue and my nose ran more than I did, but the people were high-spirited and friendly. Empowered and encouraged by the surrounding energy, I took on a light trot. The bongo drum in my chest echoed into my head as I took one icy breath after the other, only to realise I had stopped before even reaching the one-kilometre mark. The five k’s I had to complete did eventually come and as my shins caught fire, I enjoyed the most spectacular environment. From the grey blanket of mist hovering over the water, to the last stretch of bamboo forest I wove myself through. The honorary Comrades legend, Bruce Fordyce, who is the CEO of Parkrun South Africa, stated in a newsletter that Parkrun has become as much a part of the South African culture as braaivleis and brandewyn and coke. With a statistic of 681 871 overall runners taking part in Parkrun, Mr Fordyce was not wrong! Like kids collecting stamps and bikers collecting badges, some runners hop from one Parkrun circuit to the other to experience the different routes.
Some Parkrun routes have a small attendance, others have over thousands! Kimberley’s circuit stretches throughout two provinces and is considered one of the most iconic routes! But the best part is, it’s free! Running fanatics now have the chance to enjoy a safe route, just about anywhere they go, amidst a spirited and friendly crowd. To register for Parkrun or support their sponsors, visit the Parkrun South Africa webpage.
And don’t worry, it’s not so bad.      More fatalities after bus accident on Stoffberg road Municipality makes gruesome discovery in blocked drain Horrific accident: Ten casualties airlifted to Mpumalanga hospitals VIDEO – Peeing in public, a nuisance of note • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za