 The thieves are known as the ‘CD Gang’ because they allegedly burn CDs in front of their victims’ door. It is believed to drug victims in their sleep.
The latest victims of the ‘CD Gang’ are the Maila family from Tafelkop. “I was woken up by the herdsman just after the kids had left for school. He informed me that there was nothing in the kraal. We both went to the kraal to check it together. I couldn’t believe my eyes, it was completely empty.” Also read: Bail application postponed for stock theft suspects “On our way back to the house I noticed pieces of burned CDs at the front door and I informed my son, who was in Gauteng at work,” explained Mrs Elizabeth Maila. Mr Fusi Maila, Mrs Maila’s son, came home immediately after his mother informed him about the theft of their cows. “I was shocked to be greeted by an empty kraal, where five cows were stolen. I spoke to several other families who were also victims of the ‘CD Gang’. We are appealing to members of the community to help us search for the stolen cows around Tafelkop in the early hours of Saturday morning,” continued Mr Maila. “A suspect was caught by members of the community. After questioning, the suspect led the community to a house where the occupants are known for stock theft and the police were called to arrest the suspect. We are pleading with members of the community not to take the law into their own hands, and to report any leads to the police,” added Mamokwa Hlabirwa Tlaka (Community Activist).      More fatalities after bus accident on Stoffberg road Municipality makes gruesome discovery in blocked drain Horrific accident: Ten casualties airlifted to Mpumalanga hospitals VIDEO – Peeing in public, a nuisance of note • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za