 A fifth body of a homeless man was discovered on Wednesday morning at Mears Park bus station in Muckleneuk. According to the Rekord East, four other bodies were found in the area in a period of three weeks, fueling speculation that a serial killer might be on the loose. Police spokesperson Brigadier Mathapelo Peters said while investigations were already underway, police could further confirm that all victims were male, middle-aged, homeless and killed during the night. The Citizen writes that while the SAPS referred to the murders as “mysterious”, several reports suggest the killings were committed by a serial killer and now experts are demanding that a state of emergency be declared. ALSO READ: Call to declare state of emergency in Tshwane after killings The Rekord East further reported that Gauteng police commissioner Lieutenant General Elias Mawela has instructed a high-level task team to investigate “these mysterious murders”. The team is comprised of specialists from forensic services who include pathologists and criminal psychologists; crime intelligence; and detectives. “Without sowing panic, we want to caution the public to be vigilant and be aware of this nocturnal prowler preying on the vulnerable. Ours, as the police, is to work around the clock and make sure that this madness is brought to an end. For now, we are getting these homeless people into shelters,” said Mawela. Anyone with information can contact their nearest police station or by calling the crime stop number 08600-10111. Read the original story here: NEWSFLASH: Fifth body of homeless man found in Muckleneuk      Four killed after minibus and truck collide on N11 near Doornkop Elderly lady escapes with her life Parkrun fever breaks out Military troop imposter arrested • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za