 She said the problem is that poor service delivery is not only crystallising at the Boskrans Sewer Plant, but also in the streets, water ponds and small rivers flowing through Middelburg, Mhluzi, Rockdale, Hendrina and Kwaza. The small river running through Eastdene is known for its smell, Cllr Grobler said that this is due to the sewer outlet from an overloaded system. This flows into the Klein Olifants River, which passes Kanonkop and Mhluzi. “People collect water from the river for household purposes. It’s needless to explain the health risks related to this contaminated water.” She further stated that the residents in Kanonkop and Dennesig, who pay their taxes religiously, have to put up with the unbearable smell coming from the sewer plant. “The problem is just going on and on. Many contractors have tendered for this job, but it seems that those who get appointed are clueless.” This “biological” toilet was erected but doesn’t even work. She went on to say that in Doornkop, as well as Sizanani Village, millions have been spent on erecting “biological” toilets on CPA land (land belonging to Community Property Associations). “This is another contractor fraud story because these toilets are not operational. The same happened in Mampimpane Village.”
She stated that these toilets are also causing health and safety risks. Disabled persons cannot access these toilets, or pit-toilets, with their wheelchairs. The result is that during the rainy season, they end up getting soaking wet when visiting the toilet.
According to her, the health and safety problems in our municipal area are escalating. “The sanitation, as well as illegal dumping, is not being addressed in a manner which will secure a healthy and safe environment for the citizens of this municipality in the years to come.” • The municipality’s answers on her allegations can be seen by clicking here: Steve Tshwete Municipality responds to accusations of poor service delivery     Middelburg drivers the worst by far Crack in earth across R545 a major concern Watch: Armed robbers open fire on unsuspecting civilians    • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za