 Security contracts have been extended for the next six months, with instructions given for a new tender process to commence. Council, however, reserved the right to extend the contracts for another six months, when the extended contracts lapse on December 31. The municipality has contracts with Burglar Awake Alarms, Chubb Security, Mid Alarms, Hawk Security and ADT.
Only ADT is a black-owned security provider. The installation of various alarms was procured by quotation, after which contracts for the monitoring of the systems, including armed response, except in remote areas where the service is not offered, were entered into. The alarm systems protect both the council’s movable and immovable assets. The contracts have, however, lapsed and have been renewed on a month-to-month basis, due to a continued need for security.
The situation is not conducive in ensuring compliance with the Finance Management Act. An abrupt termination of the contracts will undoubtedly leave the council’s assets vulnerable. The procurement of new alarm systems and service providers will have to be thoroughly investigated to ensure alignment with the municipality’s new security strategy plan.
Integrated security solutions will also have to be investigated for high-risk areas like pay points, electrical substations and cable monitoring sites. There’s a number of digital options, like CCTV cameras, which have already been installed by the municipality, as well as smoke and pepper spray systems.
Council can also buy the alarms and outsource the monitoring, maintenance and repairs. The contract extensions will be advertised for input in the Middelburg Observer soon. The EFF warned that the municipality is not complying with BEE legislation in the above regards. Mayor Bagudi Tolo, however, said that it was not the municipality’s job to spoon-feed service providers on tender procedures and compliance. “It is the job of councillors to engage with their communities on opportunities offered by the municipality,” Mayor Tolo scolded at the chamber. The mayor did, however, agree that the companies contracted could be represented more equally.      One dead in early morning crash Fake notes in Belfast leads to two arrests Theft of motor vehicles on the rise Accident claims the life of an infant • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za