 On Monday, Themba Thobela pleaded guilty to the killing and kidnapping of a 13-year-old Gabisile and her one-year-old cousin, Nkosikhona Ngwenya. Thokozani Msibi, Brilliant Mkhize, Themba Thobela and Knowledge Mhlanga, allegedly entered the home of Gabisile and Nkosikhona, where they kidnapped the two children.
Thobela’s lawyer read a written statement by his client to the court on Monday. Also read: Mayors march against the killing of people with Albinism Thobela, who is a teacher, said he went to Mr Msibi who is a traditional healer about his struggling business in Pretoria.
Mr Msibi allegedly told Mr Thobela to find a body of a person living with albinism to boost his struggling business. Nompumelelo Ngwenya the mother of the one-year-old who was thrown from the bridge and Gabisile’s mother, Anna Shabani. The court also heard that on 27 and 28 January the men allegedly abducted Gabisile who was in her underwear at the time and her one year cousin.
When the men realised that Nkosikhona didn’t have albinism they decided to throw him off a bridge on the N4. Also read: Court in chaos as Albino murder trial unfolds Gabisile’s mutilated body was found in a shallow grave in Cullinan and Nkosikhona’s body was found on the side of the N4 Image: Sourced from missing person alert posterGabisile Shabani and her cousin Nkosikhona Ngwenya. On Tuesday, Gabisile’s mother, Anna Shabani, took to the stand, she told the court that her family is living in fear after the incident and that they have installed CCTV cameras and built high walls to protect themselves. Mr Thobela told the court in a statement that he planned to kill Gabisile for her body parts. Msibi, Mkhize, and Mhlanga all pleaded not guilty, their trial will again appear on 25 May 2020.    Asian nationals arrested for trading in rhino horn Meyer Street claims two lives Toddler still in ICU with severe burn wounds  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za