 One of TRAC’s biggest contributions to the 2019 race is the special concession that it is offering to Class 1 vehicles at the Middelburg Toll Plaza, during the closure of the R555 between eMalahleni and Middelburg, for the staging of the race. Qualifying motorists, who will be diverted by marshals and traffic officials onto the N4 between 05:00 and 14:00 on race day, will be given a unique voucher that grants them a discounted rate of R24.00 (instead of R62.00) at the Middelburg Plaza. Also read: Entries closed for GTR 2019 The voucher, which must be handed to the toll collector when passing through the plaza, will only be valid during the road closure and is only applicable to motorists who pay cash. No other forms of payment, including electronic tag payments or GTR permits, will qualify for the discounted tariff. TRAC vouchers will be available from TRAC marshals at the following locations: eMalahleni * Corner of OR Tambo and Voortrekker Road (at the Sasol Garage)
* N4 off-ramp towards Middelburg, at the Ridge Casino Middelburg * T-junction at Van Dyksdrift Road
* Four-way stop at the R555 weighbridge TRAC Marshals will also be at the designated parking zones to direct and manage traffic. Road users are advised that traffic disruptions may occur on or towards the N4 Toll Route, due to the closure of the R555 for the duration of race, however this will be temporary and road users are urged to be patient. The GTR is a charity road running event, organised by the local rotary club, to raise funds for the less fortunate while having fun at the same time. As the GTR creates a platform for the public to join forces to create change and bring relief to those in need, it fits well within TRAC’s corporate social investment responsibilities. TRAC’s 24-hour Helpdesk will be available to assist road users with queries and information relating to the N4 Toll Route and the special concession, throughout the event. The fully-operational call centre can be reached on 0800 87 22 64 or 082 881 4444 or via the Live Chat feature on our newly-launched website at www.tracn4.co.za.      Man shot in Midwater heist succumbs to wounds Municipal security providers ‘not black enough’  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za