 A Middelburg resident, who travels on the road daily, says that he foresees major problems in the future and the possible closure of one of the busiest roads near Ogies. He asked www.mobserver.co.za to investigate, stating concerns for his safety, as well as other road users. Riyaz Adams owns the Caltex garage known as Adams Motor Clinic at the entrance to Ogies on the R545 (Ogies/Bethal road).  He says that he is very concerned about the possible impact the crack might have on his business. He noticed the crack on Tuesday. He was not in Ogies on Monday but other residents told him that there was blasting done on the day. “The crack comes across the road as well as on both sides of the road, up until the corner of my property. If they close the road, it will have a severe impact on my business. I will be situated on a cul-de-sac. Who is going to drive past other filling stations, towards a dead end, to come to fill up at mine, only to turn around again?”  Mr Adams says that they rely mainly on passing travellers for business because mining and transport companies usually have their own workshops and diesel depots. “Many people use the road to get to Durban. Others come here especially on long weekends when they visit close attractions like the Rietspruit Dam. The road leads from the N12 highway towards Bethal. If the road is closed, I am going to lose a lot of business.”  Mr Adams said that he noticed people inspecting the crack on Wednesday. “We are hoping they will listen to us and only divert the road, not close it completely.” Mr Adams said that he is busy renovating the shop at the garage into a Fresh Stop, which is costing him millions.      Watch: Armed robbers open fire on unsuspecting civilians Man shot in Midwater heist succumbs to wounds Municipal security providers ‘not black enough’  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za