 Marné van der Heever says that she was on her way to the Pep in SADC Street at around 09:10 this morning (Thursday). She is aware of the security risks the CBD poses at the moment, but says that travelling from Kanonkop to the Middelburg Mall is sometimes just too much of an effort. Ms Van der Heever did not take her handbag with her and kept her wallet and cellphone on her. She also kept her doors locked until she reached her destination and had to get out. “When I parked I saw a man sitting and watching me. But there are many people so I did not think it strange,” says Ms Van der Heever. Also read: ‘He’s my hero!’ – Local woman lauds Avbob employee who comes to her rescue during CBD robbery She said that she usually walks around her car to make sure that all the doors are locked before she leaves. Shortly after getting out of her car and making her way to the passenger doors, a group of staff members from a nearby store stormed out. They yelled at a confused Ms Van der Heever to get back in her car and leave. Ms Van der Heever realized that someone had opened her back door on the passenger side at the same time as when she opened her door to get out. She was also circled by several men who simply walked away once they realized that they had been spotted. Also read: Mans probeer sesjarige uit kar pluk She says that it is thanks to the heroic efforts of the group of staff members, that she was saved from being robbed. “I went to the police to report the matter and I was told that it is a well-known gang that operates in the area. I keep on thinking what would have happened had one of my kids been in the car with me. People should rather avoid the area and make the lengthy trip to the mall,” said Ms Van der Heever.     Toddler still in ICU with severe burn wounds Alleged baby-snatcher behind bars Three suspects loose after break-in • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za