 Maureen Scheepers of SACCW said that she was filling petrol at a filling station in Mandela Street eMalahleni when she spotted a car that matched the description of a suspicious vehicle.
The vehicle has been suspected of being involved in remote jamming incidents in eMalahleni after being spotted on several occasions where theft out of motor vehicles occurred. Ms Scheepers said that she spotted the car around 07:20 which correlated with the time when the thefts occurred.  “They targeted victims on their way to work, who were usually in a hurry,” Ms Scheepers said. She called in the number plate and got confirmation that it is the car they have been looking for. Ms Scheepers said that she followed the car from a distance, but that somewhere along the line they realised that they were being followed and started speeding. Also read: Police intercept wanted suspects She called in for backup whilst still following the vehicle, who was travelling in the direction of the R555 (Old Middelburg/Witbank Road). Other members of SACCW started following the car so Ms Scheepers could fall back, hoping that the car will reduce speed. The Witbank police called for backup from the Middelburg police whilst SACCW alerted the Middelburg Community Policing forum about the car.
At the train bridge on the R555, the Audi opted to take a dirt road turn off. It was boxed in by SACCW members shortly thereafter. A photo of the vehicle the suspects fled in.Photo: supplied. SACCW member Rassie van der Lith stopped the passenger of the car from fleeing whilst Frik van Dyk caught up with the driver of the car after he fled into the veld.
They then waited for the Witbank police to hand over the suspects. Upon searching the vehicle, police discovered three remote jamming devices, and suspected stolen property including a wallet and two cellphones. Ms Scheepers realised that the vehicle’s registration number and VIN number on the licence disc did not match the number on the engine.
When the engine’s VIN number was tested, it was linked to a car that was hijacked in Pretoria in February. 