 The accident took place between Belfast and Machadodorp near the Berg en Dal monument when a Mini Cooper and a truck collided head-on.
The driver of the Mini was killed in the collision. This marks the 28th death on Mpumalanga roads within the last month. •On 12 July, nine people burned to death in a taxi on the N11 (Hendrina road). This accident was followed by three more fatalities the next day on the R555 (Stoffberg road.) •Two Zimbabwean nationals were killed in a collision on the R555 (old Witbank road) on 15 July. •A mother and her baby boy were killed after the vehicle they were travelling in overturned on the N4. The accident took place between the Arnot and Woestalleen offramps on 17 July.  •A woman was killed in a single vehicle accident when she landed between two bridges on the N4. The accident occurred on 22 July between the Bethal and Hendrina offramps. •On 23 July, one man was killed and his passenger critically injured on the Stoffberg road. The driver swerved out for an oncoming truck and overturned his Mahindra. •Five people were killed upon impact on the N11 (Hendrina road) after a truck struck their vehicle in heavy mist. The accident took place on 25 July. •On 26 July, four people were killed in two seperate accidents on the N4. Three people were killed in a multi-vehicle accident near the Middelburg Toll Plaza, followed by one more fatality involving a singe vehicle accident near Woestalleen. The driver of the Mini Cooper has not yet been identified.      One dead in early morning crash Fake notes in Belfast leads to two arrests Theft of motor vehicles on the rise Accident claims the life of an infant • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za