 One case involves a one-year-old boy, who was severely burnt with boiling water in the shack he shares with his mother. The child sustained serious injuries to his face and upper body last month while playing in the tiny shack where he accidentally toppled a boiling kettle onto himself.
According to the social worker, the child is receiving good care from his mother, who is under immense stress and presently undergoing intensive therapy. Also read: Mother, daughters burn to death in Ext. 6 The woman has three other children being cared for by grandparents, as her only income is from selling vegetables and fruit.
With the little she earns, the mother takes care of all four children, as well as her monthly rent. The baby’s biological father passed away in 2018 when her son was four months old. • The other case involves a 16-year-old teenager, whose house burnt down in Avalon on 5 August.
The child was also burnt badly in the fire, which destroyed all of the family’s belongings. Also read: Parents charged after children burn to death on Christmas • In both cases, it remains unclear when the children will be discharged from hospital, where they are still receiving intensive care.
Both families need urgent assistance with food, clothing and other necessities, like bedding and toiletries. In the case of the baby, nappies, wet wipes, baby food like porridge and purity, toys, clothes, towels and other baby necessities are needed. “Anything residents don’t want or need can be used, and we appeal to the heart of the community to help these struggling families,” the social worker told www.mobserver.co.za.
Anyone willing to assist can call the social worker on 013 249 3731 or 071 451 1332.     Alleged baby-snatcher behind bars Three suspects loose after break-in • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za