 The Middelburg Observer received these answers from the Steve Tshwete Municipality regarding the allegations Cllr Anphia Grobler made. Read main article here: “Sanitation hazard’ in STLM area • Regarding the Boskrans Sewer Plant, they said that it was constructed in the 1970s. Most of the equipment failures are due to the equipment that has exceeded its expected lifespan.
“Council has embarked on a programme to upgrade the works to eliminate the smell.” The upgrading is taking place over multiple financial years. Residents are encouraged to report any visible water leaks to the council for immediate repair by the Municipal Water Network Maintenance Team. Also read: Steve Tshwete Mayor promises to fight pollution of Klein Olifants • The sewerage blockage in Eastdene has since been unblocked. The community is encouraged to report any blockages to the council so that they can be attended to immediately. The community is further requested to avoid throwing foreign objects in the sewer system and toilets, as they are the main causes of blockages. • Kanonkop and Mhluzi are fully serviced and people are not to take water from the Klein Olifants River. The CES Department requests specific addresses or areas for people that do not receive water, so that they can be attended to.
“The water supplied by the municipality is not contaminated and is safe for human consumption.” • In answer to the allegations about contractors, it was stated that the project to upgrade the sewer plant is a multi-year project and constructed in phases.
Under Phase 2 of the upgrading, the contractors that were appointed have completed what was expected of them. “The current contractor on site must also deliver the products as tendered for.” • The municipality’s media office said that the municipality requires additional information on alleged fraud for further investigation. “The municipality and the Department of Human Settlement is working on a programme jointly with the CPA to install sanitation services to Doornkop CPA land. At present the community is serviced with ventilated improved toilets”.      Watch: Armed robbers open fire on unsuspecting civilians Man shot in Midwater heist succumbs to wounds Municipal security providers ‘not black enough’  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za