 The elderly gentlemen who passed away in the Middelburg Provincial Hospital, was at the time known to us as Mr Lynn Hoffman.
He reportedly frequented the streets of Middelburg until a few community members opened up their hearts towards him. The owners of La Riekie Catering invited Mr Hoffman to sit at their Deli and gave him food, when they saw him on the streets. His cellphone and I.D was in their possession at the time and once they became aware of his passing, they searched for a relative on his phone.
Family members who reside in eMalahleni were contacted and informed of his death. Also read: NOT FOR SENSITIVE VIEWERS: Help find this man’s next of kin After www.mobserver.co.za published an article about his fatality, a family member responded on Facebook, stating that he was not alone and had memory loss after sustaining a blow to his head. Mr Hans Duvenage from Duvenage’s Drycleaning had provided accomodation for Mr Hoffman after noticing that he was unwell on the streets. Len had only slept in the room for three days until they noticed that things were quiet. When they went to check up on him, they found him unresponsive and lying on the floor. This was when an ambulance was contacted and Mr Hoffman was admitted into hospital. Mr Hoffman’s next of kin have reportedly come to Middelburg to identify him. www.mobserver.co.za tried to contact them but they could not be reached for comment.     Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za