 This was the outcome after local business owners, situated near the Middelburg State Mortuary, lost business due to the oppressive smell of decomposition permeating from the morgue. The bodies of 18 cable thieves who perished in an explosion at the Gloria Mine are now resting in the state mortuary at room temperature, as post mortem procedures continue.
The already decomposed bodies, are withheld from refrigeration as pathologists try to preserve evidence. Also read: 13 bodies recovered from Gloria mineshaft It was later discovered that the Middelburg State Mortuary was suffering from overcrowding due to the influx of bodies as well as restricting laws that have been passed on in the previous year. Forensic teams are struggling to stay afloat after the new laws prevent them from doing more than four autopsies a day, two days a week. A 30% overtime limit was also imposed, where coroners who exceed the limit, then work overtime without financial compensation. Also read: Liggame wat ontbind laat dorp steier onder stank The general solution surrounding problems of overcrowding would be that bodies are then transferred to other mortuaries in the area for assistance.
However, the full extent of the problem was made evident when a request to transfer two bodies from the mortuary in eMalahleni was denied due to an overflow in all the mortuaries. www.mobserver.co.za has reached out to the Mpumalanga Department of Health for further comment and a follow up article can be expected in this coming Friday’s copy of the Middelburg Observer.    Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za