 The project was suspended last year due to community unrest. However, months of negotiations between the eMakhazeni Local Municipality, TRAC, SANRAL and WBHO/Motheo JV (contractor) has resulted in the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MOU) and a nod for resuming the project. The MOU focuses on various issues, with emphasis on principles and guidelines that ensure that local communities benefit from the initiative. The R400-million project will see section 5B rehabilitated and upgraded to a four-lane carriageway. Blasting is will start in April 2019 and the roadworks are expected to take 36 months to complete. The major upgrade of the N4 between Matola and Maputo (Sections 19 and 20) in Mozambique is ongoing and Mozambican road users will soon have a six-lane carriageway to enjoy between these two cities. This extensive project includes comprehensive roadworks between the Shoprite Centre Intersection in Matola and the 16 of June Circle in Maputo. The project has fallen behind schedule due to circumstances beyond TRAC’s control, but we are committed to completing it by July 2019. There were various reasons for the delays, including issues at two CFM structures and the relocation of dwellings that were on the road reserve, but these have been addressed. Although closures relating to the roadworks will be in place until June 2019, streetlights are being installed and will be operational this month. * Bronkhorstspruit: The rehabilitation of the existing carriageway is underway, and the project will be complete in April this year. Daytime shoulder closures and occasional lane reductions can be expected until completion. * Schoemanskloof (between Crossroads and Bambi): The rehabilitation of the existing carriageway is underway, and the project is advancing well. Completion is expected in May this year. There is currently one Stop/Go in place, which will be lifted during long weekends. * Montrose to Schagen: This project will commence in the next three months and will see the rehabilitation (milling and overlaying) of the existing pavement. The nature of the roadworks will result in long-term lane closures as well as a daytime Stop/Go at the Montrose Interchange during off-peak hours. * Karino Interchange: This much-anticipated project has been initiated with community participation starting this month.    Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za