 A frenzy ensued on social media after South Africa went on a nationwide search for the child, when her father allegedly took her without her mother’s permission. The girl and her family, were said to depart on holiday when her biological father stopped at their home, blocking the entrance.
Her mother told her to “give daddy an easter egg and show him her report card”, when the father allegedly grabbed her and chased away from their home in Pretoria. The incident was reported and locals started looking out for his vehicle, which was intercepted by farmers in the Warrenton area, six hours away from the child’s home. The family lawyer, told www.mobserver.co.za that a Family Violence Charge had been made against the father in 2017 and that he is only allowed supervised visits with his daughter. In the meantime, organisations like the The JRC and the Fathers’ Rights Movement have banded together to show their support for the father, while he was in custody. A digital petition has been circulating, with up to 3000 signatures, demanding that the man be set free. The father of the child, who was in police custody over the weekend, was released this afternoon(Monday) after negotiations with the prosecutor. The little girl was returned to the custody of her mother and stepfather. www.mobserver.co.za has reached out to the father for comment and is still awaiting a response. The identities of the parents are being withheld to protect the little girl.     Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za