 With the national crime stats released, the country is well aware of the rampant gender-based violence, murders, invasions of homes, hijackings… The best our President can do, is to remind us that crime prevention is everyone’s responsibility. In the very same breath, we are indoctrinated to believe that we do not have the right to defend ourselves, our property or our loved ones. The courts live under the delusion that the criminals have more rights than the law abiding citizens and our peace-keepers have their hands shackled behind their backs. The extent of lawlessness in our country has reached such a degree, that not even commuting from point A to point B is possible.
The N4 highway, among just a few, has been seized by bandits with multiple incidents of hijackings and murders to show for it. The unmotivated and senseless shooting of an innocent bus passenger, is just one of them. On Friday evening last week, a bus commuting several passengers was ambushed just three kilometres from the Middelburg Toll Plaza at about 19:00. Middelburg Police Spokesperson, Capt. Khanyisile Zwane, said a passenger who was travelling with Luciano Luxury Coaches, asked the bus driver to stop the bus so that he could relieve himself in the bushes. Shortly after disembarking, four armed men entered the bus. They demanded the passengers’ valuables before firing two shots at an occupant, who later succumbed to his wounds.
The suspects fled the scene with cash, cellphones and passports and no motivation for the brutal murder. The Middelburg Observer which will soon be hitting the stores, contains more related articles, embroidering on the latest incidents of crime. In the meantime, whilst President Cyril Rhamaphosa strongly condemns gender-based violence, the convicted rapist, Bob Hewitt is eligible for parole. After thousands of foreign nationals flee the country fearing for their lives, the Minister of International Relations, Naledi Pandor, blames the media for making South Africa look like a xenophobic country. Keep in mind that today’s bus ride might be your last but whatever you do, don’t make a scene?