 He is one of many with a disability, who completely refused to let it hold him back. There are thousands of stories about quadriplegics, amputees and mentally and physically disabled people who teach us a daily lesson by doing things we find excuses for.
And we can’t get enough of their stories, we devour them shred for shred, we watch their motivational talks, and we cry when they cross the finish line. So here’s another one. Samkelo Mlopo is 12 years old, he lives with his brother and mom, and he was born without a leg. Samkelo and his mother came into the office one day, seeking a little help. He took off his weathered old prosthesis, that he’s been using for six years, and showed me his chaffed and bruised stump. His prosthesis is too short and too small, it stands at an angle and I can just imagine for myself how many problems it’s causing. Samkelo spoke of how he dreams of playing soccer and he wants to be a doctor one day, but basic tasks, like walking, are causing him great pain. Also read: ‘I can’t run but I can dream’ When www.mobserver.co.za tried to help, every call was met with a shut door, “He’s still too young, most organisations only help amputees who have stopped growing, it’s just too expensive.” Until finally we meet the angels. The Jumping Kids Foundation gave us a call, they wanted to meet him and they will help. An appointment for Samkelo was secured for an assessment, to see if Jumping Kids could mould a prosthesis for him, but their feedback was disheartening.
Due to years and years of using the ill-fitting prosthesis, Samkelo’s stump has been severely affected. Following a call for assistance from @MOBSERV last month, we are happy to report that #SamkeloMolopo (12) visited us this week for his assessment – the start of the process to ensure access to a new, more comfortable prosthetic solution #FeelGoodFriday #AccessCreatesOpportunities pic.twitter.com/QLL0WjlgZr — Jumping Kids (@JumpingKidsSA) February 15, 2019  He needs to go for revision surgery and Jumping Kids have referred him to the orthopaedic surgeon they work with, Dr Goller. Samkelo and his mother need help with transport, accommodation and finances for the operation and the new prosthetic leg. Jumping Kids has a network which can assist but they need financial help. Before a prosthetic limb can even be considered, the revision phase can cost anything from R20 000 upwards. The costs involved for the limb will only be made known at a later stage. Anyone willing to make donations can transfer funds to the following account: Jumping Kids Prosthetic Fund Nedbank Acc: 1602417555 Branch code: 160245 Reference: Samkelo MOB including doner’s initials and surname/company name.      Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za 