 The man, who requested for his name to be withheld, said that he uses the low water bridge over the river near Avalon on a daily basis to travel to a nearby building site.
He says that the river has always been in a terrible state but he noticed a drastic decline in the water and an overpowering stench last week. “The water stinks more than usual and there is a lot of solid matter drifting in the water and laying on the river banks,” he observed. In January a proposal by DA councillor Jos Pretorius, to stop the illegal polluting of the Klein Olifants River with raw sewerage from Boskrans, was handed in during a council sitting. The ANC supported the proposal with Steve Tshwete Mayor Bagudi Tolo saying that R300 000 will be spent to acquire a generator for the waste water treatment works. The generator was to keep the pumps working during power cuts, which is when the pollution is said to be at its worst. Steve Tshwete Municipal Manager, Bheki Khenisa, said that load-shedding was the culprit for the state of the river. March saw the country being slapped with stage four load-shedding, causing three power cuts lasting two and a half hours each, on a daily basis.
“When the power is out, some of the units at Boskrans cannot be used and this results in partial treatment of sewage for the duration of the load shedding,” Mr Khenisa said. He said that a budget proposal has been made and is waiting for council approval so the generator could be bought. “This will ensure that pollution of the river no longer occurs when there is load shedding by Eskom,” said Mr Khenisa.      Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za