 In anticipation of these high volumes, Trans African Concessions (TRAC) will again boost its efforts to accommodate the influx of traffic and ensure that the N4, east of Tshwane, stays safe and congestion free. Statistics indicate that the Easter weekend sees the biggest surge in traffic volumes on this route, with traffic conditions expected to peak as follows: Thursday 18 April – 12:00 – 22:00 Friday 19 April – 08:00 – 14:00 Monday 22 April – 11:00 – 22:00 This is one of the driving factors of the TRAC N4 Easter Road Safety Awareness and Swift Response Campaign, held annually at Alzu Petroport, near Middelburg, and other strategic locations along the 570km route. The first stage of the campaign will see TRAC hold a road safety activation on Friday 19 April at Alzu to interact with members of the public to generate road safety awareness, offer a well-deserved and proper rest stop (including free coffee and massages) and educate them about TRAC’s 24-hour Helpdesk and TRACAssist – both of which will be on full alert throughout the Easter holiday. #TRACN4route 15/04 at 08:15. The Lebombo border will be operating 24/7 from 16 to 26 April 2019 https://t.co/AWIZfQOAPa — TRAC N4 Toll Route (@TRACN4route) April 15, 2019  On 18, 19 and 22 April, emergency services and TRACAssist units will be stationed at strategic points on the route, from early in the morning until late in the evening, to reduce response times to roadside emergencies and incidents. The stations will be at Bronkhorstspruit, Alzu (only on April 22), Middelburg Plaza, Milly’s, Kia Ora, Hectorspruit and the Matola Weighbridge in Mozambique. Each one and will serve as the central dispatch centre for their various sections of the N4 Toll Route. Other participating emergency services include private and public ambulance services and paramedics, Fire and Rescue, Provincial Traffic, SAPS and pathology units. TRAC will once again work with the Lebombo Border Control Operational Coordinating Committee to assist with traffic management measures en route to the border post. This will be done through the provision of signage and other logistical requirements. The border will be open 24 hours a day from 16 to 26 April 2019 and road users are urged to plan their trip accordingly, bearing in mind the heavy traffic volumes expected along the route and at the international crossing. To avoid traffic backlogs, all roadworks will be suspended for the long weekend. There will also be no Stop/Gos or lane closures at construction sites throughout the route. However, all construction areas are still deemed active and road users are urged to be cautious and obey road signage.    Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za