 Mrs Mokwena was killed after she was struck by a vehicle during a picket at Federale Stene on March 29. Picketers claim that the vehicle was driven by well-known local businessman, Storm Lutzkie. The Mhluzi Employment Structure (MUS), of which Mrs Mokwena  gathered at Federale Stene and Gradco South Africa to hand over memorandums of agreement to the companies. A poster designed by the Mhluzi Unemployment Structure in memory of Hildah Mokwena. Video footage provided by MUS shows a Toyota Land Cruiser speeding through the crowd towards the landfill. People scatter. Moments later the Land Cruiser can be seen for a second time, plowing through the crowd gathered near the company gate. Chaos erupted with terrified people screaming and running for safety. Ms Mokwena’s lifeless body is seen lying on the ground after the vehicle dissappears.  www.mobserver.co.za spoke to Mr Lutzkie on the day of the incident, during which he said he acted in self-defence after being attacked by a mob in front of his business.
He further said that he was confronted by a group of angry protesters blocking the entrance to his business and that one man tried to break his window. • Mr Lutzkie was arrested but never formally charged. After taking a look at the content of the docket, prosecutors opted to send it back to the police for further investigation.
Prosecutors were hopeful to obtain video material of the incident to determine what exactly happened.  Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za