 The accident occurred in wet conditions on the pot hole ridden R555 where the bus overturned and ended up on its side on the clogged culvert of the oncoming lane. The bus was ferrying children back to schools in Middelburg after a weekend visit to their parents in Steelpoort, Limpopo. The young Miller, a Grade 8 pupil of the technical high school, was on his way back to the school dorms when the accident occurred. Also read: Tienerseun wat oorlede is in Sondag bustragedie geïdentifiseer He was trapped under the bus after the driver lost control of the bus, leaving the tarmac. When the driver attempted to get back onto the tarmac, the bus overturned, fell onto its side and slid across the road towards the culvert. Miller traveled back to Steelpoort with his parents around 15:00 on Saturday, after the family attended the youngster’s Grade 8 concert at the school. Gideon Miller tragically passed away in the accident.  Furious residents of the rural community say they’ve been pleading with authorities to do critical upgrades to the road for a number of years. Emergency workers first had to stabilize the bus, fearing that it may slide further down the muddy slope. Also read: Een persoon oorlede na bus met skoliere onderweg van Steelpoort na Middelburg omslaan Farmers and other community members who rushed to the scene assisted the teenage passengers, most of whom sustained only scrapes and bruises, to get out of the bus. The area received some hail and rain before the tragedy. The bus driver told police on the scene that he lost control of the bus in the wet conditions. Due to a steep fall between the tarmac and the road shoulder, the driver could however not succeed in getting the bus safely onto the tarmac. The steep decline resulted in the bus tipping over. The culvert underneath the road was clogged with litter, mud and grass, leading to more water flooding the road surface. Police have not confirmed how many children were on the bus when the tragedy occurred.   Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za