 The Mhluzi Anti-Corruption Network blocked the roads in dispute of the Steve Tshwete Local Municipality’s response to their memorandum of demands. When addressing protesters at the Themba Sinamela Stadium on Friday morning, protesters told the Municipal Manager, Bheki Khenisa, that SAPS members fired rubber bullets at them they also demanded the immediate release of the two protesters that were arrested. M.M Bheki Khenisa addresses the protesters. On January 7 the group marched to the municipality, they claim the demonstration was to address the ‘irregular ‘ tender process for the annual Crossover event which was supposed to take place on 31 December till January 1. In their memorandum, the group demanded the removal of the Municipal Manager, Bheki Khenisa, the group alleges that Mr Khenisa is not giving locals job opportunities. Mr Khenisa addressed the protesters at the Themba Sinamela Studium on Friday morning.
He clarified the rumours that the Crossover event cost R1.8 million instead of the R1.1 million that was budgeted for. Protesters dispute STLM’s response. He explained that the municipality can not promise residents that all tenders will be awarded to them because they are bind to follow the Municipal Finance Authority (MFA).
Mr Khenisa assured them that when the Crossover event, that is scheduled to take place in a few weeks, will employ local contractors for sub-contractors duties. The Mhluzi Anti-Corruption Network said they will elect five delegates to formally hold talks with the municipal manager.     Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za