 Some of us dream of great things like mansions and a million bucks while others dream of more simple things.
Little things that we take for granted. In this instance, it is a dream to one day play soccer. The simple pleasure of being able to run! Young Samkelo Mlopo (12) was born with a birth defect. His left leg never fully developed in his mother’s womb and he has to wear a prosthetic leg. Also read: VIDEO: Chaos on Middelburg roads as marching protesters collide Furthermore he is a very happy and healthy young man. He lives alone with his mother, Sonto Hlanzi, in Tokologo, Mhluzi and goes to Thusanang Primary School.
His mother proudly tells of how well he is doing in school and how resilient he is to his circumstances. But Samkelo is in a lot of pain. The young boy got his first prosthesis when he was six years old. It was donated to him by Marx & Malan Medical Orthotics and Prosthetics.
He has been using the same artificial limb for the last six years because his mother can’t afford to buy a new one on her domestic worker’s salary. Also read: Alleged cop killer apprehended in Mhluzi As a result of the leg being too small, Samkelo is struggling with infections in his stump where the prosthesis is chaffing and pressing him.
As he outgrows his leg, the misalignment causes knee, hip and back problems, and they need help. A new prosthetic leg will cost them up to R64 195.63.
Samkelo and his mother are kindly asking for assistance in helping his dream come true. •If anyone is aware of any organisations that could assist, please contact the Middelburg Observer’s editorial office at 013 243 1434.    Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za