 The advert states that there is currently an intake for entry level Constables and that interested individuals should go to their nearest police stations and apply. Members of the community are therefore informed that this advert is false and its origins are unknown. The facts that the public should be aware of, are that the last trainee intake for 2019, was advertised in May last year (2018), and the closing date was on 15 June 2018. At the moment, the selection process is almost complete. The Provincial Commissioner of the Police in Mpumalanga, Lieutenant General Mondli Zuma strongly condemned the author(s) of this bogus advert and wondered what their intentions were, if not to scam people of their hard earned money. “The SAPS has not circulated any advert recently, at least not in this province. Members of the community must be extremely cautious of this and other similar fake information that is posted on social media from time to time. In most cases, these adverts require people to make cash deposits. Usually the targeted individuals would be directed to make use of cardless services offered by banks to deposit the money then forward the pin and other relevant information to them”, said General Zuma. He further stated that the SAPS does not require any money for employment opportunities within the organisation,  and unless an advert is posted on the official SAPS website or reputable newspaper, that advert maybe a scam and members of the public are advised to enquire at their nearest police station if unsure.   Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za 