 Reason Mugadha (24) went missing on the 26th of December after he was taken into custody by a security company in Jeppe Street. Two of Mugadha’s brothers who were informed of his arrest, filed a case of kidnapping after not being able to locate him in any of the hospitals or police stations in the area.
Tinashe Mangwende, Reason’s brother, came to www.mobserver.co.za on the 2nd of January to report his brother’s disappearance. Mr Mangwende disclosed to one of the journalists that the security company allegedly took Mugadha into custody after accusing him of theft. He showed a video of his brother’s arrest and then proceeded to state that the security guards assaulted Mugadha to the point where he could no longer stand by himself.
Tinashe Mangwende alleged that after several onlookers told the guards that “they were going too far”, the guards then loaded him into the back of their response vehicle and left. After learning of their brother’s arrest, Tinashe and another sibling went to the police station, which was unaware of the incident. After the case was opened, Tinashe alleged that the police contacted the security company, who then stated that Reason Mugadha managed to escape their custody. A search for the missing man then proceeded for seven days, until Tinashe and his other brother informed www.mobserver.co.za that they identified his body at the State Mortuary. Www.mobserver.co.za tried to trace the security company for their comment, but the company could not be tracked down.
While www.mobserver.co.za is aware of the company’s name, it will not be published until they can be reached for comment.  Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za