 When travelling · Before you leave , ensure that you vehicle is in the sound working condition and that the spare wheel is inflated. · Do not use your cellular phone while driving as it distracts your attention. · Plan your route carefully before leaving, ensuring that you leave enough time for rest at a safe area. · Never display valuables in your car, lock it in the boot. · Never pick up strangers or take a lift from a stranger as you might expose yourself to becoming the victim of crime. · If you leave for an isolated place, leave your details with a trustworthy person who can call for help if you do not return at a designated time. · Park your vehicle where it is safe and where there is sufficient light.   At hotels, guest houses and other accommodation · Never leave your luggage unattended unless it is locked away in your room. · Store your valuables(especially firearms) in a safe or safety deposit box and keep your room locked at all times · If someone knocks, check who it is before opening the door. Do not allow strangers into your room. · Hand your keys in at the reception whenever you leave your room. #sapsLIM Provincial Communication Officials reach out to communities through radio, Thobela FM & Energy FM sensitizing community about #CrimePrevention this #FestiveSeason & beyond. Safety tips shared & listeners called in to raise crime concerns #CrimeTalk #SaferFestiveSeason ME pic.twitter.com/k8K9MZqKMd — SA Police Service (@SAPoliceService) December 19, 2018   Safety in the street · Never display expensive jewellery, cameras, mobile phones or other valuables · Do not carry large amounts of money with you. · Do not leave your handbag unattended, always carry your wallet in an inside pocket. · Steer clear of dark and isolated areas at night. · If you want to make use of taxi, your hotel or nearest tourism information office can recommend a reliable service. · Never participate in games of chance in the streets. This often leads to robbery. Ignore the players and leave the area immediately. · Report lost or stolen belongings to the police immediately. · Before you explore the area, obtain information from your hotel or holiday resort of the areas that are unsafe to visit. · Never allow your children to be distracted or to wonder off from parents. · If you carry a firearm, it must be carried in the holster or similar holder and it must be completely covered. You must have full control over your firearm at all times. Internet image: Roodepoort Reckord -Thief stealing automobile car at daylight street in city  When going out on holidays · Inform the nearest police station if you are going to leave for more than a week for the patrol to be conducted around your area during your absence. · Also inform a reliable neighbour of your absence . The neighbour may immediately contact you if there is suspicious movement in your house. · Avoid posting on social media if you have gone on holidays. Criminals are alerted on social media of your absence and movements therefore the chances of breaking into your houses increases. · Before you leave for holidays, ensure the doors and windows are locked.  Hawks members sent to jail for fraud WATCH: The Place of Refuge – Once a vibrant village, now a ghost town WATCH: Robbery caught on video, police looking for suspects Three counts of poaching in one week – and the toll keeps rising   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za