 The suspect was found at his hiding place at Mhluzi (Middelburg) in the early hours of Saturday and will appear at the Calcutta Magistrate Court on Monday, facing charges of murder, armed robbery and possession of an unlicensed firearm. The arrest follows the double murder of Sergeant Thembisile Ndlovu (40) and her husband Jabulani Khoza (44) on 01 December last year in Bushbuckridge. The couple were awaken by a disruption inside the house and upon inspection they were fired upon by three suspects. The late Detective Sergeant Ndlovu from Calcutta SAPS retaliated and fatally wounded one suspect. #sapsHQ Mpumalaga #Hawks assisted by Nelspruit TRT arrested a suspect (31) for alleged murder and possession on an unlicensed firearm following double murder of Sgt Thembisile Ndlovu (40) and her husband Jabulani Khoza (44). #PoliceKillings NPhttps://t.co/NLcox836T0 pic.twitter.com/IDcng2luBY — SA Police Service (@SAPoliceService) January 6, 2019  However the other armed two suspects continued firing and sadly both Ndlovu and Khoza succumbed to injuries from the shooting. The suspects fled the scene with the family’s vehicle which was later found abandoned within the Bushbuckridge area. Members of the Hawks’ Serious Organised Crime Investigation Unit immediately took over the investigation and explored numerous linkages which led to the arrest of the suspect and the recovery of the firearm over the weekend. The search for the third suspect is ongoing. The National Head of the Hawks Lieutenant General Godfrey Lebeya has commended the investigating team for the apprehension of the alleged perpetrator and similarly he is confident that the third suspect will be arrested soon.   Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za