 The school, budgeted at R44 million was promised by former Education MEC, Reginah Mhaule in 2015 and was expected to become operational in 2016 but the tender to construct the school was only issued last year due to multiple delays. While the DA welcomes the fact that soon, a new school will be built that will help to alleviate the problem of overcrowding in schools, it is clear that the Department of Education does not take the issue seriously.   Numerous delays in building new schools have robbed learners in Steve Tshwete Municipality of a quality education & will contribute to the problem of overcrowding faced by many schools in the municipality. #BetterServicesNow Jane Sithole Bosman Grobler Posted by Democratic Alliance Mpumalanga on Tuesday, 8 January 2019 Construction of the school has not yet begun and only a mobile office container is on site. According to the Department, a part of the initial R44 million budgeted for the construction of the school was reprioritised in the 2015/16 financial year to address the provision of water, sanitation and electricity in other schools. Despite this, Mpumalanga still lags behind in ensuring that all schools have adequate water, sanitation and electricity. Schools that are overcrowded or lack basic amenities cannot provide quality education to learners and this has an effect on the number of learners who actually matriculate and go on to study further or find gainful employment. The DA will continue to monitor the construction of this school as well as the provision of basic amenities to all schools in Mpumalanga because a quality education is the key to ensuring that learners can secure a bright future for themselves.    Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes  • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za