 Maryka Kleinhans (31) died on the scene. It was said that she jumped out of a moving vehicle.
”Why were we kept away from the scene? Why did they not let us know about her death? Why did someone have to phone us from Lydenburg on Monday to sympathize before we were even aware that she was dead? Something just does not make sense!” the distraught couple told www.mobserver.co.za on Tuesday.

They say what they find most concerning is that Capt. Geldenhuys did not call them himself, as he had their phone number. Capt. Geldenhuys is stationed with the eMalahleni police. These were only a couple of questions that haunt Johan and Petro Bezuidenhout. They spoke to www.mobserver.co.zashortly before they were to leave for Middelburg to collect their daughter’s remains. Also read: Ouers het verhouding met polisie kaptein nie goedgekeur
Mr and Mrs Bezuidenhout said that they traveled to Middelburg on Monday, shortly after learning of their daughter’s death. Upon their arrival at the mortuary, they were informed that an autopsy is currently being performed and that it will take about an hour. “We sat at the mortuary for more than six hours to wait for the autopsy to be completed.” Kapt. Awie Geldenhuys. Mr Bezuidenhout said a police officer told them that they suspect foul play. The couple themselves say that their questions emanated from the fact that nobody informed them of their daughter’s death on the night she died. “Awie phoned his brother from the scene to ask him to go there. His brother lives two blocks from us. He could have taken us with him. I could have gotten the chance to see her body whilst it was still warm. Instead I had to go and identify her body among others in a mortuary. It was horrifying” a broken Mr Bezuidenhout said. Mrs Bezuidenhout said that Capt. Geldenhuys, after they managed to track him down around midnight on Monday, told them that Maryka was sitting on the backseat of his car before she died. Maryka and Capt. Geldenhuys were at Loskopdam for the day and were on their way home. Also read: Bekende polisiekaptein op toneel waar vrou langs pad gesterf het
“He told us that they had an argument and she sat in the back of the vehicle. I find it highly unlikely that she would sit in the back, because like me, she easily gets carsick if she sits on the back seat,” said Mrs Bezuidenhout. They are also baffled as to why she would have jumped out of the car. “Awie told us that she was nearly run over by another car, whilst he was busy trying to get her to open her eyes.”

The couple said that they have never met Capt. Geldenhuys in person and only saw their daughter and him traveling together in a car on two occasions. They were aware that their daughter and Capt. Geldenhuys were in a relationship for the past three months. 

The Bezuidehout couple said that they did not approve of the relationship. They also did not want their three year-old granddaughter to accompany Maryka whe she went to visit Capt. Geldenhuys. Also read: Storm om Kaptein se kop kring uit Mr Bezuidenhout said that all he wants, is to know the truth about how his daughter died. “Do we have to fear that the docket is going to go missing?” • They were informed on Monday that the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is investigating the case. • Maryka was a hairdresser who worked at ‘Die Ark’ hairdressers in Lydenburg up until December. • She is survived by her parents, a brother and sister and her three year-old child. • Maryka was to testify in a case against Vic Welgemoed on 8 February. He stands accused of impersonating a police officer among other charges. • www.mobserver.co.za tried to call capt. Geldenhuys but he cut the call once he heard who was speaking. A WhatsApp message sent to his phone was read but not replied to.    Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za 