 If you’re wondering how to keep your child entertained during the festive season road trips, here are ten ways to avoid the “are we there yet?” questions and boredom in the car: • Road Trip Bingo: This fun game combines bingo with a scavenger hunt. Give each child a flat surface, such as a clipboard or hardcover book, to put on his or her lap. Each player gets a free printable bingo card and a zip-lock bag with 16 pennies. When a player spies an item on his card, he covers the picture with a penny. Just like in regular bingo, the first player to cover all the squares in a straight line wins. • License Plate Game: When we were kids, everyone seemed to play the license plate game on family road trips. Armed with a pad of paper, we would write down the name of each province as we spotted it. The goal, of course, was to nab all 8 provinces. If we were lucky, we’d bag foreign provinces, too. Nowadays we love the ease of an updated free printable license plate game, where kids cross off the provinces as they spy them. For older kids learning geography, we recommend the map version, which shows how far away each car originated. •While you were sleeping The Rules:
First, a passenger must fall asleep.
After five minutes of slumber, the awake passengers begin creating a story.
Each person takes turns adding to the story.
Once the passenger wakes up, you have to get them to believe the story.
If somebody breaks character, they lose a point.
If somebody goes off script, you ask “Are you sure?” and then that person is silenced and loses two points.
If you successfully fool the person, each storyteller wins three points.
If the sleeping passenger fools the car and joins their story correctly, they steal their current point total.
The one with the most points at the destination wins. •Noot-vir-Noot The Game: Connect song lyrics for a fun sing-along game. The Rules: One person starts singing a song
Using a lyric from the song, the next person has to connect it with another song
It continues on until somebody messes up the lyrics or is stumped Example: I kissed a girl and I…
…Really, really, really like you…
…Doing that thing you do, breaking my heart into a million… •Snack attack
The Game: Collect the most regional snacks between the start and finish of your road trip The Rules: At each gas station you stop at, you have to find a local snack
You can only get one food item per gas station
The food item has to be created within the region the stop is located
Whoever has the most snacks by your destination wins
Duplicate cities don’t count •The Game: Holler when you see a cow! The Rules: When you see a cow on your side of the road, you have to yell, “Cows on my side!”
Every time you call a cow, you get a point
If you see cows on the other side you say, “Cows on your side!”
If you call, “Cows on your side” before the person sees them, you steal a point
If anyone sees a cemetery they scream, “Ghost cow,” stealing all the other side’s points •Photo diary
Take pics of road trips or specific things on list and create a scrapbook for family at home •Magnetic board games of card games •Knitting or crocheting, tolletjiebrei.