According to recent research 60% of South African pet parents believe that they are putting their fur babies at risk, if they do not take them for their annual check-up.
“Yet believing this and doing it is something completely different,” says Dr Guy Fyvie, Hill Pet Nutrition’s nutritional advisor. Trying to get our pets to the vet can be daunting and many of us even put the much-needed visit of, until it is absolutely necessary. A yearly check-up could make a lifetime’s difference because early detection of problems, means an earlier intervention and in many cases a better prognosis and outcome. To help make the trip to the vet that much easier, Hill’s asked South African pet parents to share their best tips, some of the top ones were: Be sure to take your pet for regular trips in the car so that they get used to driving and not be filled with anxiety before even arriving at the vet. Taking something to comfort them such as a special toy or a blanket may help to ease some anxiety. If you are going to use a pet carrier, try to get them used to it long before your first visit. They need to feel comfortable and safe when they are being transported in a carrier, so keep it out at home and encourage them to go into the carrier, by putting their blankets or toys into it, even when you are not taking them anywhere. In addition Dr Fyvie has also have some advice to help making visits to the vet for pet parents and their fur babies a less stressful experience: To avoid your cat or dog getting car sick, do not feed them for at least an hour before the trip. A top-loading carrier is ideal for cats, as the top easily comes off allowing for your cat to be placed inside and removed without too much resistance or stress. While in the waiting room, always remain in control of your dog, keep them on a leash or in a carrier (ideal for smaller dogs), give them physical attention and talk to them softly. Veterinarians are experienced in treating nervous and frightened pets, but nothing calms your pet more than seeing you and hearing your voice, so even while in the exam room know that your presence will comfort your pet.