SA Shares is a South African platform that explains everything you need to know of what is going on in the national financial world. Learn how to buy and trade on the JSE stock market, MetaTrader and forex trading in South Africa. Everything there is to know about vehicle finance. Visit their website and subscribe to their newsletter that gives you the top business stories every week. SEOPros is a top digital marketing and SEO company. If your business is not on page 1 of Google, you need their professional services. Did you know that 75% of people don’t scroll to the second page of google? Allow our team of experts to assist you with your web design, they will make your website the best in your niche. Let your website do all the work to convert your leads into sales. Opinionfacts.com is a platform with the world’s local stocks and investments. You can learn how to trade and buy shares. With more than 15 ideas how to make money online you might want to read more and get a few tips how to make money from home as a side hustle. Don’t start your claim process alone if you don’t know what you are doing. Join over 2500 successfully claimed people and contact their legal team. For any road accident fund claims, personal injury claims or medical negligence claims they will guide you every step of the way. No win, no fee. If you need to find out if your customers like or dislike your product or you don’t know if your product or service is what they require. Contact Interact, they are the leading user experience agency in South Africa. They step into your business world, engage with your users and employees and get the feeling of what the user experience should be. They will provide you with a strategy and also assist you to execute it. Start the new 2020 school term off on the right foot and provide your school with Amaniyah’s easy to purchase and affordable textbooks, such as biology textbooks, mathematics books and physical science textbooks. Amaniyah Publishers offers a wide selection of textbooks (printed and e-books), in accordance with the current school curriculum. Giving the perfect gift for a new mom or a mom to be is not an easy decision to make. BebedeParis is an international online baby gift service in South Africa available to both individual shoppers as well as corporates and companies. They offer a wide range of newborn baby gifts such as gift hampers, gift baskets, baby shower gifts, nappy cakes, gift sets, baby clothes, soft toys just to name a few. TheMarketplace•Shop is one of the best online craft shops in South Africa. With handmade, homemade and proudly South African gifts on offer at affordable prices. Whether you are looking for a special gift, birthday gift or any unique gifts in South Africa, they are the perfect online gift shop to visit. They offer nationwide delivery and you can also promote your homemade products and gifts on their website. If you are looking for a gift for the special person in your life and you know they deserve a luxurious and expensive gift because they are worth it, look no further. Topwatch is an exclusive watch supplier with a range of Tag Heuer, Breitling, Omega and Rolex watches to name a few that you can choose from for ladies and gents. They offer delivery to your door. Online gift shopping has never been this easy. Aerial Excellence is a DStv Satellite Accredited Installer and Agent, since 1994. They install DStv decoders and DStv systems on behalf of most retail outlets. Some of their services include repairs, installations, software upgrades, upgrading of your decoder and viewing packages. With 32 years’ experience there is no doubt that they are the leading provider of the very best two-way radios, CCTV camera systems, access control systems, wireless products and network solutions, audio systems and emergency lights. Regardless of the industry you are working in Electra is the company that you can rely on for your telecommunications and monitoring requirements. If you are looking for someone who has the answers to your DDos, Firewall, AntiVirus and Cloud questions, look no further, Obscure Technologies is a firm of experts who specialises in brokering the best security solutions to the market. With partners like Symantec, Palo Alto, ForeScout and RikIq to name a few you can be assured to be in good hands and that your requirements will be met. Zinia is your business partner for Internet, Voice and IT Solutions. Increase your business productivity by switching to VoIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol). This is the most cost-effective and feature-rich IP platform. Some of their IP PBX features are easy implementation, less landline expenses and it supports all business sizes. Start saving time and money today and contact them to get free technical advice. Copiers Africa stocks the widest range of new and refurbished copiers. You have the option to buy or rent one of the biggest assets in your business. Some of the brands that they have on offer is Toshiba Printers, Konica Minolta, Samsung, Brother Copiers, Kyocera Printers, just to name a few. You won’t be disappointed with the exceptional service that you will receive from their dedicated staff. Apple device owners everywhere are always looking for the best Apple Mac repairs specialist to assist them. Your search is over, IRestore Apple Repair Centre has over 25 years’ experience in the Apple field. They focus on providing efficient solutions for all your Apple hardware requirements. Switchcom Distribution is a dynamic and innovative ICT distributor in South Africa. Wherever you are based, they will connect you. Their comprehensive product range supports their vision of providing their clients with an end-to-end solution. They offer sales, distribution, technical support and financing for resellers, installers, ISP’s, WISP’s and end users. They are leading Payroll Outsourcing Specialists who offers their services to businesses of all sizes across 40 African countries and the United Arab Emirates. Why make use of DNA’s HR and payroll outsourcing services? Each expert in their team have between 10 and 30 years’ experience and their Cloud Technology Platform enables them to offer their service in the smartest ways at affordable pricing, no matter where your company is based. Have you ever wondered how to approach your SARS submission if you work for your South African employer in another country? FMJ is leading tax practitioners and consultants waiting for you call. They will assist you every step of the way, calculating your foreign income tax and submitting your tax return to SARS on time with the correct documentation. With the tough economic times it is not one of the easiest things to get a job that you deserve or get a reliable employee who is perfect for the vacancy. This is where Measured Ability comes in and will take over from you during this stressful process. They are one of South Africa’s leading recruitment agencies with more than 30 years’ experience. They can assist you with National and International Employment, labour broking, labour hire, labour outsourcing as well as temporary staffing, just to name a few of their services that they offer. They are professional leaders in Payroll and Human Resources Software. Their Software Solutions are used by Accountants and Municipalities and they offer informative payroll and human resource management courses where you can enhance your knowledge. They offer the following software solutions: Payroll, Human Capital, Time and Attendance, Employee Self Service (ESS), and Online Payroll and HR Software. Get in touch with Casual Films, the leading corporate video production company in the world. Why? With over 10 years of experience they make powerful, effective films for global businesses that want to stand out. They understand how to turn business messaging into an impactful video. Their production teams make the video the best version of what it needs to be. Blinds4U is a leading blinds supplier in South Africa, they offer a wide selection of the highest quality customised blinds, umbrellas as well as tinted and frosted windows. They offer top quality guaranteed products at affordable prices. You can be assured of excellent quality and service. Contact them for a free on site quotation. They are the leading supplier of composite mats worldwide. They offer portable, re-usable, recyclable, mega deck, durable base and trackway access solutions. If you are looking to buy or rent a solid working surface, no matter the ground conditions Composite Base Rig Mats have the perfect solution for your site. It’s all in the name, if you are looking for a contractor for a specific service ContractorFind is the best platform where you will find what you need, with multiple options to choose from. Whether you need a handyman in Centurion to fix a few things in your house, painting contractors to come and touch up your house, install a security gate in your home before the holiday of you need someone to take care of your property’s waterproofing. Maybe you want to spoil your partner and upgrade your kitchen design, or you want to go to the extreme and need some help with a professional town planner.Their services on offer also include building contractors, skip hire as well as cleaning services. Planning your 2020 family holiday? Kruger Wildlife Safaris has got the best packages on offer for you. They can assist you with tailor-made Kruger National Park Tours and you can be assured to have the most adventurous itinerary full of sightseeing on your safari. Everyone has heard about the saying a building is as strong as its foundation. If the foundation is not solid, then there will be complications in the future. Pinnacle Industries are a team of 32 professional staff, experienced in structural repairs to fix your property’s cracked walls due to sinking foundations. They provide the highest quality workmanship on schedule at affordable prices within your budget. With 30 years of experience, Watergate is a leading leak detection and pipe relining service provider with exceptional standards of quality, service and workmanship. No, they won’t break down your whole house or dig up your entire pavement, with their Trenchless (no dig) technology, they will repair burst pipe from inside. They offer leak detection, pipe relining, specialised drain cleaning and plumbing maintenance services. If you have a warehouse full of stock and you know that you are losing control of everything that goes in and out of the system, Multiweigh is definitely the company to approach to assist you with their exceptional warehouse management system. It is software that is created specifically to make your day to day operations of your warehouse flow smoothly. Solve your inventory management problems and eliminate constant queries today. Any other ordinary water has a pH of 7 which means it is neither acidic nor alkaline. Designer Water has a pH of 10, this means it is the purest form of alkaline water that you can drink. Designer Water is a leading brand of alkaline water in South Africa and has empowered thousands of entrepreneurs with an opportunity to sell, market and benefit from the sale of Designer Water. Fountain Circle Medical Suppliers is the leading supplier of Sleep Apnea Machines and devices in South Africa. With the ultimate guide to CPAP Machines, FC Medical’s consultants will guide you every step of the way when buying a device for your sleeping disorder needs. Is the best International Cleaning Equipment (ICE) supplier in South Africa. They offer a wide variety of industrial cleaning equipment as well as fantastic service support. If you are looking for floor cleaning machines, big or small, you can contact them with all your industrial cleaning requirements. Just Physio is the best physiotherapist in Pretoria East. Here they are still old school and they strongly believe in hands on treatment where your therapist will focus on using soft tissue and manual therapy techniques. You don’t have to walk and live with chronic pain and suffering anymore. Whether you had an operation or a sport injury, their experienced therapists will customise a treatment programme specifically to target your needs. You can also make your appointment online. They are a leading Kruger National Park Safari Tour Operator in South Africa. What is on your list of holiday destinations this year? A 4 day luxury Kruger Park Safari or just a visit to the Kruger Park for a day. They also have a wide range of Budget Kruger Safaris on offer. If you want to go on a safari closer to Gauteng, have a look at their Pilanesberg Accommodation. If this is the year you want to be extreme and explore something magnificent across border you might want to add an Iceland Northern Lights Tour to your bucket list. Vanilla is the world’s most popular flavours, and who doesn’t love vanilla? Native Vanilla is one of the best vanilla suppliers in the world. They provide naturally-grown, ethically-sourced, high-quality vanilla, free from any artificial additives. Some of their finest vanilla products are: vanilla bean pods, vanilla powder, and extract. When you buy any products from Native Vanilla you can be sure that everything is truly organic and tasty. Wedding fever is in the air and wedding season is here. One of the most important parts of your big day is the cake. People just love cake and is one of the topics that is discussed most after the wedding, what did it taste like, what did it look like, was there enough for everyone? With Oh My Cake! you can tick your wedding cake off your list and trust them with your guest’s taste buds. You can choose from cakes, cupcakes, macarons and more. Moving, this must definitely be on the list of the least enjoyable things to do. But Red Trucks are there to help you, they will make your moving day a little bit more comfortable. They move anything, anywhere, anytime. They will help you immediately at the most affordable price. You will not be disappointed if you make use of their fast and reliable service to transport your goods. Rugs Original is South Africa’s leading suppliers of rugs and carpets. With a wide variety of Persian carpets and oriental rugs, modern carpets, classic carpets, machine washable rugs, kids carpets and well as outdoor rugs there is something for everyone’s taste. You will not be disappointed with their latest specials and affordable prices. They make your house feel like a home. Zembe Safaris is one of the top professional hunting outfitters in South Africa. They offer big game hunting and specialize in Cape Buffalo hunting, Hippo hunting, and Sable hunting. With over 20 years’ experience you can be assured to receive a world-class trophy hunting safari, guided by the best Professional Hunters. You have the opportunity to hunt over 30 big game species, including the big 5, on different hunting concessions across South Africa.