 The Smart Garden 9 and Smart Garden 3 indoor gardening kits can help you grow your favourite herbs, salad greens and flowers easily by using energy efficient LED grow lights. Here is how it works: Smart Garden 9 – The Smart Garden 9 can grow up to nine different plant pods simultaneously and is the perfect addition to any kitchen counter, windowsill or living room. – No GMOs, no pesticides, and no herbicides: Smart Soil plant pods use non-GMO seeds and do not include any herbicides, pesticides or fungicides. The produce is grown right in your own home, so you can rest assured that you’re getting the freshest vitamin rich food that doesn’t include any harmful substances and hasn’t been sitting in a warehouse before finally reaching your table. – Wide selection of pre-seeded plant pods: 50 different pre-seeded rosemary, basil, oregano, marjoram, thyme, salad greens, decorative flowers, mini tomato, wild strawberry and several varieties of peppers. – Silent and easy to use: Forget about the noisy pumps, messy bottles of nutrient solution and pH stabilizers. – The plant pods gradually release all the nutrients your plants need to thrive. Smart Soil automatically regulates pH, oxygen and humidity levels across plants’ life cycles and enables the indoor planters to use a totally silent, passive watering system. – Kit includes everything you need to get started: The Smart Garden 9 comes with a complimentary set of plant pods so you can start growing. – All you need to do to start growing is put the plant pods into their cavities, plug in the power adaptor, and fill the water reservoir. Priced at R3 450 each. What’s in the box?
1 x Smart Garden 9
3 x Mini Tomato
3 x Basil
3 x Green Lettuce Smart Garden 3 Same as with Smart Garden 9. All you need to do to start growing is put the plant pods into their cavities, plug in the power adapter, and fill the water reservoir. Priced at R1 650 each. What’s in the box? 1 x Smart Garden 3
3 x Basil Plant Capsules Materials can be found by visiting the Builders website: http://www.builders.co.za/