 Some homes are fitted with state of the art solar energy suppliers and can function completely off the grid.
Those who don’t have the capital to follow in stride are asking the next big question, generators or inverters? I won’t pretend to be an expert in the field. Not too long ago, I didn’t know an inverter can be used to supply electricity.
Turns out, they can, but how do they compare to their older and more conventional counterparts? If you are shopping for an emergency power supply for your home, the first question you should ask yourself is what you want to use it for.
Keeping in mind that if you want to run your entire household on an emergency power supply, then there’s no skimping. But if you’re looking at something smaller, to cover the bare minimum then both an inverter or generator could do the trick. Neither an inverter or generator actually generate electricity but convert one form of energy into another.
It is essential to know the difference between the two to make the right choice. An inverter stores electricity in batteries that are either charged by your municipal energy supply or solar panels. They convert the current from AC to DC and then back again so that technology like your television and cellphones aren’t damaged by the circuitry. They are environment friendly and noise free. They are smaller in size and portable, which makes them ideal for smaller spaces and travel. So if you’re the camping type, you’ll be using it more frequently than you think. The catch, however, is that they cost more, on shelf. Buying a generator may be cheaper, but having to constantly replenish its fuel supply is not. They are bulkier, noisier and create more pollution. While it appears that the inverter is the new eco-friendly alternative, they both do the same thing. However, if you’re looking for more, speak to the specialists.    Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za