 The 2019 Middelburg Airshow will be taking place on March 9. Tickets are already available. Middelburg Aero Club is proud to have been awarded the second best air show in South Africa award for 2017, and cannot wait to share the line-up for the 2019 airshow with www.mobserver.co.za. The airshow is a family event and aimed at entertaining young and old by sharing the excitement of flying with those who live life on the ground. This year the airshow will start at 13:00 and end in the dark with a night manoeuvre by the Harvard Flying Lions, followed by a spectacular fireworks display.  The airshow aims to please all spectators by providing a large variety of displays, which will include skydiving, extreme aerobatics, formation aerobatics, the fastest and slowest aeroplanes, aeroplane and car races, helicopter and car races, radio controlled aircraft displays, jets and much, much more! There’ll be coloured daylight firework shows and helicopter and hot air balloon rides. Look forward to a large array of food vendors while the kiddies’ corner will keep the small ones occupied. The Rotary Beer Garden will serve adults, with the proceeds pledged to local charities. The Middelburg Aero Club will again reach out to disadvantaged groups and charities by taking them on free flights. The Charity Day is unfortunately by invite only. The Middelburg Aero Club invites the people of Middelburg, and it’s surrounding towns, to bring their friends and their whole family, and enjoy the heart-stopping action.
Just bring along the camping chairs, gazebos and enjoy the food and drinks provided by the vendors. • For more information visit 2019 Middelburg Airshow on Facebook or email info@middelburgearoclub.com for further details.    Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za