 2019 started with a string of bogus vacancies targeting desperate unemployed residents. In January the South African Police Service issued a statement to squash claims that there was an intake for entry-level constables. The fake job post further stated that interested individuals should go to their nearest police station and apply, the origins of the messages are still unknown. Meanwhile South 32 and Anglo American also sent a warning to residents about a fraudulent job offer post doing the rounds on social media platforms. South 32 steadfastly said that its organisation does not advertise job posts on social media sites and that it will never ask job seekers to pay money in order to secure employment.
The mining company said job opportunities will only be advertised on their website and newspapers. Anglo American was also hit by a fake job post when a hoax message claimed that the company had vacant job offers and that it would be taking experimental learning interns. The mining giant said these imposters want to extract personal information and money from unsuspecting victims. It pleads with residents to not respond to suspicious emails. Here are some tips on how to spot a job scam: • If an email is different from the domain name, it’s possible fake. • Be on the lookout for employers that ask for credit card details, bank account numbers and personal information. • If the job offer looks too good to be true, it’s probably not true.   Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za