 Hendrina police spokesperson, w.o. David Mbenekazi, said that police were called to a house in Kwaza, after the person staying there discovered what seems to be the remains of a woman, in a shallow grave behind the house. The house concerned has an ominous history. In 2005 the couple who resided there, passed away. Their three children stayed on in the house after their parents’ passing. In the years that followed, one sibling passed away and another moved out of the house after she got married, leaving a brother behind as the sole occupant of the house. Also read: Body found next to river with arm torn off The man was discovered dead in the house in 2017. At the time it was suspected that he had been dead for at least four days when his body was found. The house was vacant thereafter, with family members visiting from time-to-time to clean the house and maintain the property. A family member, who had a temporary job in the area, had been staying at the house for the past couple of weeks. He made the grizzly discovery when he decided to clear the overgrown grass in the back yard, using a spade. According to information obtained by the police, the man came across a dustbin that contained something that gave off a horrible stench. He disposed of the dustbin.
Whilst digging in the garden, he came across a bone, but thought it belonged to an animal, and carried on clearing the grass. Also read: Body of missing Durban man found in Middelburg Dam It was only when he uncovered more bones and clothing, that he realized what he had stumbled upon.
He called in the help of the neighbors and the police were summoned to the scene. W.o. Mbenekazi says that the body was wrapped in a thick blanket or a carpet. The remains seems to be that of a female. She was wearing a black T-shirt with the number 86 printed in orange on the front, as well as a skirt of which the color is unknown. A T-shirt and jean, presumably belonging to a man, was found underneath the body of the woman. It is suspected that the body has been buried in the back yard since 2017, when the body of the occupant in the house was discovered. •Anyone who can identify the clothing, or who has a loved one that has been missing, can get in contact with w.o. Mbenekazi on 079 891 4869.    Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za