 In the previous three years this competition took place at Rutland Water (England), Konakova (Russia) and Lough Ree- Lanesborough (Ireland) making this the first time in South Africa. Forever Loskopdam will host the teams from South Africa, Namibia, Ireland, Lithuania, Romania, Ukraine, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Belarus, Estonia, Italy, Latvia, Russia, Croatia and the USA. “The teams usually consist of four anglers, two reserves, one manager and a coach. We chose Loskopdam because of the variety of fish species, beautiful nature and excellent facilities,” said Magriet Coetzee, SAALAA Representative and Manager of the South African Team. The team representing South Africa is known as the Proteas and consist of Magriet Coetzee (Manager), Rennie Sada (Coach), Pieter Reynecke (Captain), Wayne Naude, Fanie Fourie, Emile van Druten, Damon Nell and Norval Feuth. Fish to be caught during the competition are: •Enteromius mattozi (Papermouth) •Clarias gariepinus (Sharptooth Catfish) •Labeobarbus marequensis (Lardescale Yellowfish) •Labeobarbus polylepis (Smallscale Yellowfish) •Micropterus dolomieu (Smallmouth Bass) •Micropterus salmoides (Largemouth Bass) •Oreochromis mossambicus (Mozambique Tilapia) •Schilbe intermedius (Silver Catfish) •Coptodon rendalli (Redbreast Tilapia) Andries C. Hoffman, a River Scientist will also be displaying some of the fish species for the public to come and view and learn more about. “We are exceptionally excited to host The Sport Fishing World Championship at Forever Resort Loskopdam as this event is the equivalent to the Olympics,” said Monica van der Linde, General Manager at Forever Resort Loskopdam. Schedule of events: 9 February 2019 – Opening Ceremony in Sandton, Johannesburg 10 and 11 February 2019 – Fishing exercise days on Loskopdam 12 and 13 February 2019 – Fishing competition on Loskopdam 13 February 2019 – Gala Awards Ceremony at Forever Resort Loskopdam 14 February 2019 – Departure of Teams.    Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za