 Following traditions passed down from her mother and grandmother, she learned traditional Ndebele wall painting and beadwork as a child. She became an expert in executing murals as a teenager, using a range of paint colours. Between 1980 and 1991 she lived and worked at the Botshabelo Historical Village, an open-air museum of Ndebele culture near Middelburg, Mpumalanga. In 1986, researchers from Paris, who were travelling the world to document traditional arts, saw the paintings on Mahlangu’s house. They invited her to create murals for an exhibition of international contemporary art, the Magiciens de la Terre. She travelled to France in 1989, stayed there for two months, and painted a house in front of thousands of spectators.  She also decorated a wall inside the AngoulÁªme Museum of Fine Arts and showed her work at other locations in France. In 1990 she began to paint murals for public venues, soon followed by Europe and the United States. Mahlangu was the first person to transfer the traditional Ndebele style of mural painting to canvas. She painted her geometric patterns on a BMW 525i in 1991, becoming the twelfth artist and first woman to take part in the BMW Art Car Project, after figures such as Andy Warhol and Roy Lichtenstein. In the years that followed she exhibited work in countries around the world. With the goal of preserving her cultural heritage, Mahlangu started an art school in the backyard of her home in Mabhoko in the KwaMhlanga. Her awards include the South African government’s Order of Ikhamanga, silver class, in 2006, as well as the Mpumalanga Arts and Culture Award, an award from the French Ministry of Culture and two awards from Radio Ndebele.     The ferals need help #TrafficAlert: R555 closed, seven die in horrific crash Middelburg police officer arrested during Hawks operation   • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za