 After the closure of the colliery in 2015, families were cut off at the knees financially, losing their livlihoods due to corruption and state capture. Minister of Mineral Resources, Gwede Mantashe, who attended the handover, shared words of encouragement, urging the Arnot community to collaborate in ensuring the success of its reopening. The Mine, which now rests in the ownership of the new company name, Arnot Opco was transfered to West Coal, with 50% given to retrenched employees who are now official shareholders in the company. Also read: ‘Gupta’ is a swear word in Middelburg The new Mine Operator, Ms Bonhle Mapana disclosed in a statement that it’s Arnot Opco’s vision to create value and create a company that could compete with the likes of Exxaro. She further went on to explain that it is the responsibility of sharholders to ensure the company’s success. Minister Mantashe spoke of the significance behind the handover taking place on Workers Day, emphasising that the transfer was all about the workers. He commended Exxaro for thinking beyond the crisis and turning it into an opportunity. West Coal is at the forefront of funding the initiative by providing the capital to pick the Mine up off its knees. West Coal CEO, Reginald Dimana promised that they will continue to support the new owners.
“We have funded R100 million of which R25 million has already been spent. Moving forward, we promise transparency and accountibility in our partnership and thank Exxaro for this opportunity.”     Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za