 With no visible markings or road signage, motorists are forced to face the dangerous conditions of the road on a daily basis, with no real signs of improvement.
Several motorists that have repeatedly complained about the state of the road, are now claiming to smell a rat.  The contract for construction of the old Belfast road has changed hands so many times, that currently no one seems to know who was contracted to do the work. A sign that was erected indicates that the company Mpfumelelo Business Enterprizes are the contractors. This misleading information is expired and the company told the Middelburg Observer that they have completed their contract over four years ago. The current contractors, who remain unknown, were allegedly drafted to repair the road from Middelburg to the Middelburg Dam.  Signs of construction came to light after asphalt was poured to a certain point but motorists are claiming that the tarring was a half-hearted job. One motorist, in particular, went as far as to say that they are just wasting money.
“They have just gone and tarred over the old tar road and all of its potholes! The bridge where you cross the Klein Olifants has a very deep ditch and a truck has already fallen into it. At one point they put up a barrier to mark the area, but now that’s gone too!”  The motorist, who wished to remain anonymous, further went on to explain that the asphalt is so loose that when cars pass each other, they kick up stones and damage the vehicles. “If the tarred section is not completed yet, why is the section not properly cordoned off. There are certain areas of tar with rocks on it to deter motorists, but other sections are left completely open.” She further went on to question how long the new tarred section would last for. www.mobserver.co.za has directed a media enquiry to the Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport, but the department failed to respond accordingly.     Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za 