 Either which way, the words remain impactful. It makes me wonder what Desré Powell thinks of society when she arrived home to find that someone had shot her cat. Ms Powell, who resides in Dennesig, wants to make an appeal to the public against cruelty to animals after she has watched many of her own animals either go missing, or return home with injuries. Also read: NIE VIR SENSITIEWE KYKERS: Polisie sloer met dierewreedheid sake As she sits in the editorial offices of www.mobserver.co.za, she tries to hold back her tears.
She says she can’t point fingers or lay any charges, but she has her suspicions. Desré was away for three weeks and had left her husband behind to tend to their animals. In her absence, someone had shot their cat with a pellet gun. She explains how her husband sent her a photo of the cat after the shooting. He had rushed the pet to the Kanonkop Veterinary Clinic, with money they did not have, only to watch the cat succumb to its wounds. The vet had removed two pellets. Also read: Katte lê vir ure in plastieksak met pote vasgebind “I don’t want to lay any charges or open any cases. There’s an Almighty who sees everything. I just want you to write in the paper that people must stop being cruel to animals.” www.mobserver.co.za spoke to Senior Inspector Petro Oberholzer from the SPCA about the steps one can take to report such instances. Ms Oberholzer explained that the pet needs to be taken to a veterinarian, who needs to provide a report confirming that the animal was shot. Substantial proof needs to accompany the report, implicating the perpetrator that injured the animal. Not only is it a violation of the law to shoot a weapon in a populated area, it is also a violation of the Animals Protection Act to use any equipment that may cause harm to an animal.     Parents frustrated by a lack of space in Middelburg schools Traffic officers to appear in court for corruption #TrafficAlert: Two dead in Kranspoort accidents VIDEO: Two perish after truck jack-knifes • Save our standby number (072 248 3855) and send us a WhatsApp message with the words “Add me” to be added to our broadcast list. • Like us on Facebook, follow us on Twitter and Instagram. • Subscribe to our YouTube channel. • Click on the link to subscribe to our bi-weekly newsletter via email. Contact our news room on our 24 hr standby number 072 248 3855, or send a mail to our editor tobie@mobserver.co.za