 The matric examination roster has been in place since January. It is common knowledge by now that the young students are to face the most important assessment of their scholastic careers and that the first questionnaire they will be facing is for Computer Application Technology – a subject you need electricity for. Regardless of whether the majority of high schools are equipped with a generator or not, South Africa’s matric learners have been caught completely off guard, with no warning from Eskom or the Municipality about the sudden power outage. The Headmaster of Hoërskool Kanonkop, Mr Martin Fourie, explained that despite the school being outfitted with a generator, his matric learners are behind schedule with 45 minutes, since the little-to-no warning they received about the loadshedding, left them entirely unprepared. He further explained that despite having a generator, operating electronic devices from it, is not ideal and has its complications. Also read: Tuesday Life Hack: 7 life hacks to help you during loadshedding “Not only is it a frustration to staff members because nothing else can operate during loadshedding, but this disruption during a very important exam is not very helpful towards the children.” Another school whose learners have also been dropped in the dark, is Hoërskool Middelburg. Mr Johan Stronkhorst, the Headmaster of MHS, stated that his students are 15 minutes behind on schedule but the exams are going forward.
Mr Stronkhorst mentioned that this time last year, the same thing happened. The school, fortunately was prepared, and the power was cut just seconds before the learners started with their exams, so fortunately no students lost their work. “What people need to keep in mind is that our loadshedding episode lasts until 11:30 and the students are writing a three-and-a-half hour exam. When the electricity comes back on, we can’t keep running off of the generator and will have to switch back to the municipal supply. This means we have to interrupt the children mid-exam, asking them to save their work.” Also read: Tips for the doomsday preppers In the Municipality’s defense, however, one could say this wasn’t their fault. They were also not aware that Middelburg would be affected, and the person who was responsible for pulling the plug, was none other than the beloved Eskom! •Middelburg residents can expect yet another slot of loadshedding between 17:00 and 19:30. •Rockdale and Nasaret will be affected between 11:00 to 13:30. •Doornkop – 19:00 to 21:30. •Hendrina and Kwazamokuhle – 17:00 to 19:30. •Good luck to all the matric learners with the start of your national exams.